*Integrators: if your tool builds on or integrates Mylyn please add it
by editing this page. Order is alphabetical.*

Connectors bundled with Mylyn can be found on the **[Download
Page](http://www.eclipse.org/mylyn/downloads/)**. You can [vote for
other task repository
connectors](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/buglist.cgi?query_format=advanced&short_desc_type=anywordssubstr&short_desc=%5Bconnector%5D&product=Mylyn&long_desc_type=allwordssubstr&long_desc=&bug_file_loc_type=allwordssubstr&bug_file_loc=&status_whiteboard_type=allwordssubstr&status_whiteboard=&keywords_type=allwords&keywords=&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED&emailtype1=substring&email1=&emailtype2=substring&email2=&bugidtype=include&bug_id=&votes=&chfieldfrom=&chfieldto=Now&chfieldvalue=&cmdtype=doit&order=Reuse+same+sort+as+last+time&field0-0-0=noop&type0-0-0=noop&value0-0-0=)
on bug reports.

# Distributions

## [Embarcadero JBuilder](http://www.codegear.com/products/jbuilder)

JBuilder 2008 bundles Mylyn and includes a task repository connector for
XPlanner. For more information see the [video
documentation](http://dn.codegear.com/article/33880#31MylarXPlannerandBugzilla).

**License:** Commercial **Status:** mature **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0

## [SpringSource Tool Suite](http://springsource.com/products/suite/sts)

The SpringSource Tool Suite is an Eclipse and Mylyn-powered development
environment for building enterprise applications using the Spring
Portfolio. The tool incorporates a task-focused user interface to speed
development, architecture review tools to guide developers toward best
practices, and runtime error analysis with automated resolution lookup
to help developers solve problems in running applications.

**License:** Commercial **Status:** mature **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0

## [STAR Workbench Standards for Technology in Automotive Retail](http://www.starstandard.org/)

The STAR Workbench 2.0 bundles Mylyn and includes a task repository
connectors for Bugzilla and Mantis. The STAR Workbench is made available
to members of STAR a business to business standards organization for the
automotive, marine, powersports, and heavy duty/light truck industries.

**License:** Non-Profit **Status:** mature **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0

## [Tasktop Dev](http://tasktop.com)

The task-focused desktop (Tasktop) is a commercial and supported version
of Mylyn. Tasktop Dev extends the task-focused interface to web and file
browsing and provides advanced planning and **Time Tracking/Reporting**
facilities. Tasktop Pro includes the following additional connectors:
**Atlassian Jira, Zendesk, Microsoft Outlook Tasks, Calendar and Email,
Google Calendar and GMail**. Tasktop Enterprise additionally adds **CA
Agile Central and Planning, HPE PPM, HPE QC / ALM, IBM RQM and RTC,
Microsoft TFS, Test Manager, and Visual Studio Team Services, Polarion,
Serena Business Manager, and VersionOne**. Tasktop also provides
one-click install of certified partner connectors, including CollabNet.
Integration with the Windows desktop enables focusing of external files
and applications. Tasktop also includes advanced time tracking and
reporting facilities, great for determining what tasks and projects you
have been spending time on, helping to hone estimates, and complete time
sheets. Tasktop also provides a full-featured web browser within
Eclipse, as well as integration with web applications such as MediaWiki
and del.icio.us. Tasktop can be installed into Eclipse or as a
standalone RCP application.

**License:** Commercial **Status:** mature **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.1

## [UML Lab](http://www.uml-lab.com)

UML Lab is the first Modeling IDE to seamlessly combine modeling and
programming with an intuitive UML diagram editor and next-gen round-trip
engineering. UML Lab extends Mylyn's task-focused interface to its UML
models and class diagrams. In conjunction with its own next-gen
Round-Trip-Engineering<sup>NG</sup> it keeps you focused on your active
task both on code and model level. Automatically managed context class
diagrams show all interesting artifacts in your active task for even
better and faster overview. Task-focused diagrams keep you in the flow
while modeling. Interacting with your code artifacts will increase
interest in associated model elements and vice versa for a consistent
modeling and programming experience. UML Lab is available as an Eclipse
plug-in and as a standalone RCP application.

**License:** Commercial **Status:** mature **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.5

## [Jubula](http://www.eclipse.org/jubula)

Jubula is a cross-platform automated GUI testing tool for a variety of
application types. As well as offering in-tool reporting and test
analysis options, it also offers integration to application lifecycle
management (ALM) tools via Mylyn. Tasks from external repositories can
be seen and edited directly within Jubula, new tasks can be created from
test results, and test results can automatically be added to tasks in
ALM tools after a test run. Using the Mylyn ALM integration in Jubula,
teams can reduce the time it takes to provide feedback between
development and test and ensure that information about testing can be
seen by all stakeholders.

**License:** EPL **Status:** mature **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.8.0

# Task Repository Connectors

## [Allegra](https://www.trackplus.com/mylyn.html)

[Allegra](https://www.trackplus.com) is a web based professional project
management and issue tracking system.
[Trackmylyn](https://www.trackplus.com/en/mylyn.html) is a Mylyn
connector and user interface that permits to work with an Allegra server
from within Eclipse. Input masks are completely configurable, and
resemble those configured on the server. The adapter also allows for
time and expense tracking.

**Status:** Mature **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.3
**Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.6:
    <https://www.trackplus.com/files/downloads/mylyn/update-site/e3.6/>
  - Eclipse 3.5:
    <https://www.trackplus.com/files/downloads/mylyn/update-site/e3.5/>
  - Eclipse 3.4:
    <https://www.trackplus.com/files/downloads/mylyn/update-site/e3.4/>

## [Atlassian JIRA (by Atlassian Connector for Eclipse)](http://www.atlassian.com/software/ideconnector/eclipse.jsp)

Atlassian has ended support for the Atlassian JIRA connector. See [this
blog
post](https://developer.atlassian.com/blog/2015/06/discontinuing-ide-connectors-support/)
for more details.

**Status:** mature **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.3
**Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.6:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.6>
  - Eclipse 3.5:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.5>
  - Eclipse 3.4:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.4>
  - Eclipse 3.3:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.3> (v1.2.0
    is the last release compatible with Eclipse 3.3)

## [Atlassian JIRA (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/integrations/atlassian-jira-dev)

With the Tasktop Dev JIRA connector, you can query your JIRA server and
access your issues from Eclipse and quickly view and update your issues
using a rich editor. When someone modifies one of your tasks, you'll see
an incoming change notification in your task list. There's no longer a
need to use a web browser and email client to stay on top of your JIRA
issues. Tasktop also provides task time tracking as well as personal,
sophisticated scheduling for your JIRA tasks, so you can prioritize your
work beyond what is available through JIRA.

**Status:** Stable **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.4+

## [Atlassian Bamboo (by Atlassian Connector for Eclipse)](http://www.atlassian.com/software/ideconnector/eclipse.jsp)

Atlassian has ended support for the Atlassian JIRA connector. See [this
blog
post](https://developer.atlassian.com/blog/2015/06/discontinuing-ide-connectors-support/)
for more details.

Monitor Bamboo continuous integration server builds and create Mylyn
tasks from failed builds.

  - Notifications and status at a glance
  - Drill into details without leaving IDE
  - Create tasks from failed builds
  - Re-run tests locally

**Status:** stable **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.3
**Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.6:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.6>
  - Eclipse 3.5:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.5>
  - Eclipse 3.4:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.4>
  - Eclipse 3.3:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.3> (v1.2.0
    is the last release compatible with Eclipse 3.3)

## [Atlassian Crucible (by Atlassian Connector for Eclipse)](http://www.atlassian.com/software/ideconnector/eclipse.jsp)

Atlassian has ended support for the Atlassian JIRA connector. See [this
blog
post](https://developer.atlassian.com/blog/2015/06/discontinuing-ide-connectors-support/)
for more details.

Complete entire code reviews in Eclipse by configuring Crucible as a
Mylyn task repository.

  - Open reviews in rich editor or diff view
  - Navigate related code for greater context
  - Create and response comments in-line
  - Create post-commit and pre-commit review directly from Eclipse

**Status:** stable **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.3
**Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.6:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.6>
  - Eclipse 3.5:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.5>
  - Eclipse 3.4:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.4>
  - Eclipse 3.3:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.3> (v1.2.0
    is the last release compatible with Eclipse 3.3)

## [Atlassian FishEye (by Atlassian Connector for Eclipse)](http://www.atlassian.com/software/ideconnector/eclipse.jsp)

Atlassian has ended support for the Atlassian JIRA connector. See [this
blog
post](https://developer.atlassian.com/blog/2015/06/discontinuing-ide-connectors-support/)
for more details.

Complete entire code reviews in Eclipse by configuring Crucible as a
Mylyn task repository.

  - Share links to FishEye directly from your code editor or various
    Eclipse views

**Status:** stable **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.3
**Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.6:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.6>
  - Eclipse 3.5:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.5>
  - Eclipse 3.4:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.4>
  - Eclipse 3.3:
    <http://update.atlassian.com/atlassian-eclipse-plugin/e3.3> (v1.2.0
    is the last release compatible with Eclipse 3.3)

## [Bitbucket Mylyn Connector](https://bitbucket.org/pplupo/bitbucket-mylyn-connector/wiki/Home)

It's not complete yet but it is working with the most fundamental
features.

  - Share links to FishEye directly from your code editor or various
    Eclipse views

**Status:** alpha **Compatibility:** Currently working with Mylyn 3.3
and Eclipse Indigo but may work with previous versions. **Update site:**

  - <http://babelserver.org/mylyn-bitbucket/>

## [Bugzilla (Mylyn Project)](http://www.bugzilla.org/)

The Bugzilla Connector is bundled with Mylyn.

**Status:** mature **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0
**Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.6, 3.5, 3.4:
    <http://download.eclipse.org/tools/mylyn/update/e3.4>

## [CA Agile Central and Planning (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/tasktop-integration-network#CA)

With the connector installed, Tasktop Dev becomes a rich desktop client
for CA Agile that enables you to manage your development stories, tasks
and defects within Eclipse. CA Agile Integration enables both developers
and testers to improve their overall efficiency because they can update
their status more quickly and more often. The CA Agile connector
supports offline editing and integrated notifications so you can easily
scan changes to your artifacts without cluttering your email inbox with
messages from the server. All Tasktop products enable an easy one-click
install of the connector, which can be used with both CA Agile's
on-demand and on-premise solutions.

**Status:** Stable **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.4+

## [CodeBeamer Eclipse Studio](http://www.javaforge.com/project/CBES)

codeBeamer from [Intland Software](http://www.intland.com) is a
commercially available Collaborative Application Lifecycle Management
Solution, also powering open source community sites like
[JavaForge.com](http://www.javaforge.com). **codeBeamer Eclipse Studio**
(CBES) gives reflectivity and mobility to codeBeamer users.

  - Query codeBeamer issues in Eclipse
  - Quickly create or edit bugs, tasks, requirements
  - See only the relevant code for each issue
  - Work Offline
  - Integrate with Mercurial, Subversion and CVS

**Status:** stable **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.3 or
newer **Update sites:**

  - <http://cbes.javaforge.com/update>

## [CollabNet Issue Tracker, formerly IssueZilla](http://eclipse.open.collab.net)

Issue Tracker is spin off project from bugzilla and is part of the
[CollabNet Enterprise
Edition](http://www.collab.net/products/enterprise_edition/) tool suite.
This connector allows users to access and manipulate Issue Tracker
issues through Eclipse Mylyn.

**Status:** mature **License:** [CollabNet Desktop Software End User
License
Agreement](http://eclipse.open.collab.net/servlets/ProjectProcess?documentContainer=c2__License)
**Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0 **Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.4:
    <http://downloads.open.collab.net/eclipse/update-site/e3.4/>
  - Eclipse 3.3:
    <http://downloads.open.collab.net/eclipse/update-site/e3.3/>
  - Eclipse 3.2:
    <http://downloads.open.collab.net/eclipse/update-site/e3.2/>

## [CollabNet TeamForge, formerly SourceForge Enterprise Edition](http://eclipse.open.collab.net)

Tracker is a flexible tracking system that is part of the [SourceForge
Enterprise Edition (SFEE)](http://www.collab.net/products/sfee/) tool
suite. Tracker's primary focus is on software artifacts such as defects
and enhancements, but is suitable for handling many other record
oriented artifacts. Tracker is fully integrated with version control
tools. This connector allows users to access and manipulate Tracker
artifacts through Eclipse Mylyn.

**Status:** mature **License:** [CollabNet Desktop Software End User
License
Agreement](http://eclipse.open.collab.net/servlets/ProjectProcess?documentContainer=c2__License)
**Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0 **Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.4:
    <http://downloads.open.collab.net/eclipse/update-site/e3.4/>
  - Eclipse 3.3:
    <http://downloads.open.collab.net/eclipse/update-site/e3.3/>
  - Eclipse 3.2:
    <http://downloads.open.collab.net/eclipse/update-site/e3.2/>

## [CollabNet Project Tracker](http://eclipse.open.collab.net)

[Project Tracker](http://project-tracker.open.collab.net/) a flexible
tracking system that is part of the [CollabNet Enterprise
Edition](http://www.collab.net/products/enterprise_edition/) tool suite.
Project Tracker's primary focus is on software artifacts such as defects
and enhancements, but is suitable for handling many other record
oriented artifacts. Project Tracker is fully integrated with version
control tools. This connector allows users to access and manipulate
Project Tracker artifacts through Eclipse Mylyn.

**Status:** mature **License:** [CollabNet Desktop Software End User
License
Agreement](http://eclipse.open.collab.net/servlets/ProjectProcess?documentContainer=c2__License)
**Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0 **Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.4:
    <http://downloads.open.collab.net/eclipse/update-site/e3.4/>
  - Eclipse 3.3:
    <http://downloads.open.collab.net/eclipse/update-site/e3.3/>
  - Eclipse 3.2:
    <http://downloads.open.collab.net/eclipse/update-site/e3.2/>

## [EmForge](http://www.emforge.org/project/EmForgeMyLynProvider)

EmForge is open-source, workflow-based task management system integrated
wiki, project & task managment, source browser and reports (in many
cases like trac) but allowed to configure tasks workflows with using
another Eclipse plugin: [GPD from
jBoss](http://www.jboss.org/jbossjbpm/gpd/). A Mylyn connector is
available for EmForge 0.24 or later with the following functionality:
Connect to EmForge server; create queries with many options; Process the
tasks, including working with attachments and comment,

**Status:** beta **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 2.0 **Update
sites:**

  - <http://svn.emforge.org/svn/emforge/emforge-mylyn/trunk/update-site>

## [EPlanner](http://code.google.com/p/eplanner/)

EPlanner is a Mylyn connector for use with ExtremePlanner
[1](http://www.extremeplanner.com).

**Status:** alpha (still in design and development) **License:** EPL
**Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0

## [FogBugz (by Bugclipse)](http://www.bugclipse.com/)

[FogBugz](http://www.fogcreek.com/FogBugz/) is a complete project
management system for software teams.
[Bugclipse](http://www.bugclipse.com/) is a Mylyn connector that enables
import of FogBugz cases as Mylyn tasks within eclipse. It also allows
for automatic time tracking and generates timesheet reports. Case
details can be exported in convenient formats (html, pdf, excel, ps).
The complete set of features can be found
[here](http://www.bugclipse.com/features). A trial version is
[available](http://www.bugclipse.com/downloadpage) for download

**Status:** Mature **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 2.0
**Update sites:**

  - <http://www.bugclipse.dreamhosters.com/update>

## [FogBugz (by Foglyn)](http://www.foglyn.com/)

[Foglyn](http://www.foglyn.com/) is a
[FogBugz](http://www.fogcreek.com/FogBugz/) connector for Mylyn which is
aimed to work with Mylyn 3.0 (shipped in Eclipse 3.4 -- Ganymede, but
also works with Eclipse 3.3 -- Europa) and future versions.

**Status:** Stable **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0
**Update sites:**

  - <http://update.foglyn.com/stable>

## [GitHub Connector (egit-github)](http://github.com/smilebase/org.eclipse.mylyn.github)

[GitHub](http://www.github.com) Mylyn connector. Please see also
[2](http://wiki.eclipse.org/EGit/GitHub/ContributorGuide#Contributing_Patches).

**Status:** ALPHA **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.5 **Update
sites:** <http://download.eclipse.org/egit/github/updates-nightly>

## [GitLab Connector (mylyn-gitlab)](https://github.com/pweingardt/mylyn-gitlab)

[GitLab](https://github.com/pweingardt/mylyn-gitlab) Mylyn connector.

**Status:** ? **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** ? '''Installation via
[Eclipse
marketplace](https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/mylyn-gitlab-connector)

## [Google Calendar (by Tasktop)](http://tasktop.com/products/tour)

Tasktop (the task-focused desktop) synchronizes tasks from your Task
List to selected Goolge Calendars based on either Scheduled date or Due
date. Task and non-task events from your Google calendars are displayed
in Tasktop's agenda and present a notification popup when drawing near.

**Status:** mature **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.1

## [Google Code](http://code.google.com/projecthosting/)

[Project hosting on Google Code](http://code.google.com/projecthosting/)
offers Subversion and Mercurial code hosting, source code browsing and
code review tools, an issue tracker and a project wiki.

The [Google Code Mylyn
Connector](http://code.google.com/p/googlecode-mylyn-connector) allows
for creating queries and creating and editing tasks.

**Status:** alpha **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.2 **Update
site:** <http://knittig.de/googlecode-mylyn-connector/update/>

The [Project Hosting Connector for
Mylyn](http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/projecthosting-connector-for-mylyn/)
says it only supports read-only access at the moment.

**Status:** alpha **License:** Apache License 2.0 **Update site:**
<http://svn.codespot.com/a/eclipselabs.org/projecthosting-connector-for-mylyn/update/>

## [Google Gmail (by Tasktop)](http://tasktop.com/products/tour)

Tasktop (the task-focused desktop) makes creation of tasks in your Task
List from Gmail as simple as tagging a Gmail message. Easily create a
new task in your Task List from any web enabled device using Gmail's
email filter/labeling. Just send yourself an email with a special prefix
and Tasktop will sync it to your Task List.

**Status:** mature **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.1

## [Google SpreadSheet (by ScrumVision.org)](http://www.scrumvision.org/)

Scrum Vision is an Eclipse Mylyn connector that use Google SpreadSheets
as a Scrum Product Backlog. The Backlog is an excel like tasklist (see
the [spreadsheet
template](https://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=0AnLWe3MMtAkJdFNIendVSmthbWtsSXBObmxOVVVtRWc)).

**Status:** Released **License:** GPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.x

## [HP ALM and Quality Center](https://h10078.www1.hp.com/cda/hpms/display/main/hpms_content.jsp?zn=bto&cp=1-11-127-24_4000_100__)

The HP Quality Center Mylyn Connector enables you to retrieve Quality
Center requirements and defects in the context of Mylyn tasks. You can
update Quality Center entities from Eclipse, and create traceability
between source code and the Quality Center entities. This connector is
compatible with Eclipse 3.4 and 3.5 and currently available only for
Microsoft Windows.

  - Mylyn Connector for HP Quality Center 9.2
      - Main page:
        <http://update.external.hp.com/qualitycenter/qc90/others/mylynconnector/index.html>
      - Update site:
        <http://update.external.hp.com/qualitycenter/qc90/others/mylynconnector/update-site/>

**Status:** Released **License:** Free (HP End User License Agreement)
**Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0.5 and later.

  - Mylyn Connector for HP Quality Center 10.00
      - Main page:
        <http://update.external.hp.com/qualitycenter/qc100/others/ideconnector/index.html>

<!-- end list -->

  - Mylyn Connector for HP ALM 11.00
      - Main page:
        <http://update.external.hp.com/qualitycenter/qc110/others/ideconnector/index.html>

**Status:** Released **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn
3.0.5 and later.

## [HPE ALM and Quality Center (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/integrations/hpe-alm-and-qc-dev)

Tasktop Dev support for HPE ALM and Quality Center integrates Tasktop
and Mylyn's task-focused interface technology with HPE ALM and Quality
Center, resulting in improved developer productivity by providing
Eclipse IDE and Visual Studio integration and interoperability with
integrations of leading commercial and open source ALM platforms.

**Status:** Released **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn
3.4 and later.

## [HPE PPM (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/integrations/hpe-ppm-dev)

Eclipse Mylyn revolutionized developer productivity by reducing
information overload, making multi-tasking easier and far more
intuitive, and improving recovery time from interruptions. Tasktop Dev
extends Mylyn with key features like time trackingand integration with
enterprise repositories. With the Dev integration for HPE PPM,
developers can access tasks in HPE PPM directly from Eclipse and Visual
Studio IDE, enabling them to update status and time worked, all without
leaving their IDE.

**Status:** Released **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn
3.4 and later.

## [HPE Application Lifecycle Management Octane (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/tasktop-integration-network#HP)

Quickly view and update lifecycle artifacts with the benefits of
personal task management and task-focused interface technology for HPE
Application Lifecycle Management Octane.

**Status:** Released **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn
3.4 and later.

## [Hudson (by Tasktop)](http://tasktop.com/connectors/hudson-jenkins.php)

The Hudson Mylyn Connector, which also supports Jenkins, improves
project visibility and productivity by providing direct access to Hudson
from within the Eclipse IDE. The connector makes it possible to work
with Hudson day-to-day entirely from within the Eclipse IDE with support
for running and monitoring builds as well as inspecting the results. The
connector's rich integrated editor displays build information to provide
a quick overview of test results, artifacts and changes for each build.
The connector takes advantage of task-focused interface technology,
which provides automatic change set tracking, to provide visibility into
your hudson builds and the tasks that changed for a given build,
creating traceability between tasks source and builds. The Hudson
Connector is included in Tasktop Dev Pro.

**Status:** Released **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn
3.4 and later.

## [IBM Rational Team Concert (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/integrations/ibm-rational-team-concert-dev)

Tasktop's Rational Team Concert (RTC) integration for Tasktop Dev brings
the benefits of personal task management and task-focused interface
technology to development teams using RTC. The connector enables
developers to instantly resume their coding session when switching
between RTC work items, automatically track and update time estimates on
user stories, and seamlessly use RTC alongside dozens of other ALM
systems. Tasktop's RTC integration reorganizes the IDE around RTC tasks
such as work items, reducing information overload by displaying only the
code, web pages and documents that are relevant for a given task.

**Status:** Released **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn
3.3 and later

## [Industrial Connector (with SQL using Ibatis)](http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/industrial-mylyn/)

Industrial Connector for Mylyn 3.3 and higher allows out of the box
connection to any JDBC accessible SQL database using [Apache Ibatis
SqlMap](http://ibatis.apache.org/) configuration files. It can also be
extended for any sort of persistence by implementing one Java interface
IPersistor. This allows simple connection to XML, Microsoft Excel, etc
to be implemented quickly. Includes an extensive local repository with
comments and attachments example based on Derby. [Industrial
TSI](http://www.industrial-tsi.com/) funded development and made this
connector available under EPL. Included examples:

  - in memory connector
  - local Derby using JPA
  - local Derby using Ibatis
  - Twitter

More info on [wiki
page](http://wiki.eclipse.org/Mylyn/Incubator/Generic_SQL_Connector) or
[Eclipse Bugzilla](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=184532)
or
[EclipseLabs](http://code.google.com/a/eclipselabs.org/p/industrial-mylyn/)

**Status:** Beta **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.4 and
higher **Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.3/3.4:
    <http://svn.codespot.com/a/eclipselabs.org/industrial-mylyn/trunk/com.industrialtsi.mylyn.site/>

## Lighthouse

There are
[instructions](http://help.lighthouseapp.com/discussions/tips-tricks/25-integrating-eclipse-mylyn-with-lighthouse)
for how to set up a generic connector for use with
[Lighthouse](http://lighthouseapp.com/).

## [Mantis](http://mylyn-mantis.wiki.sourceforge.net/)

The Mylyn connector for MantisBT allows you to manage your bugs straight
from Eclipse. Visit the [Mantis integration for
Eclipse](http://mylyn-mantis.sourceforge.net/) site for more details.

Supported features include:

  - creating and updating tasks;
  - synchronizing tasks;
  - commenting;
  - uploading and downloading attachments.

**Status:** mature **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.x
**Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.6,3.5,3.4:
    <http://mylyn-mantis.sourceforge.net/eclipse/update/site.xml>

## [Microsoft Outlook & Exchange](http://tasktop.com/products/tour) (by Tasktop)

Tasktop's Outlook Email Task integration allows you to easily create
tasks from Outlook email and manage them along with all your other tasks
Mylyn's Task List. Aside from the usual Mylyn benefits such as task
scheduling, with Tasktop, documents and web sites are captured with the
active task making multitasking that much easier. Tasktop also supports
integration with Outlook tasks and provides synchronization and
notification of tasks between the Mylyn Task List and Outlook Calendar.

**Status:** Released **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn
3.1

## [Microsoft Team Foundation Server (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/integrations/microsoft-tfs-dev)

This connector makes TFS a first-class citizen of the Eclipse Mylyn ALM
ecosystem, enabling developers to access TFS from the Mylyn task list
within Eclipse and providing interoperability with more than 50 ALM
solutions. The TFS Connector also fully supports Mylyn's task-focused
interface technology that tracks and displays only the source code,
documents and web pages that are relevant for a given TFS work item.
With the Connector and Tasktop for the Visual Studio IDE, development
teams using Microsoft's ALM tools in heterogeneous environments now have
access to Mylyn's integration and task-focused productivity benefits.
The TFS Connector is bundled as part of Tasktop Dev Enterprise.

**Status:** Released **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn
3.2+

## [Mongolyn](https://github.com/belaso/mongolyn/)

Mongolyn enables Mylyn to store tasks into MongoDB.

Supported features include:

  - creating and updating tasks,
  - synchronizing tasks.

**Status:** beta **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.7 **Update
sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.7: <http://www.belaso.de/updates>

## [Origo](http://origo.ethz.ch)

[Origo](http://origo.ethz.ch) is an open-source software development
platform developed at ETH Zurich. Users can host open-source as well as
closed-source projects. The platform provides an issue tracker, wiki
pages, a SVN repository, workitem notifications for various events (like
commits and wiki edits), community features and much more. The Mylyn
connector provides task list integration and rich editing for the Origo
issue tracker.

**Status:** stable (but not all Mylyn features are supported yet)
**License:** [MIT](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)
**Compatibility:** Mylyn 2.0 **Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.3: <http://download.origo.ethz.ch/mylyn/update-site/>

## [QcMylyn](http://qcmylyn.sourceforge.net/)

This project is an Eclipse Mylyn Repository connector for HP Quality
Center.

**Status:** Beta **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0.5+
**Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.4.2/3.5: <http://qcmylyn.sourceforge.net/update/>

## [Perforce (by Perforce)](http://tasktop.com/connectors/perforce.php)

P4Mylyn automatically tracks the context of Perforce-managed assets
related to each Perforce Job or task in any defect or project management
system with a Mylyn connector. This makes it easy to commit to Perforce
only the relevant changes when working on multiple tasks. Automatically
generated commit comments link to the active task, creating seamless
code-to-task navigation and traceability. P4Mylyn also supports 'Jobs',
Perforce's built-in defect tracking system, making it a first class part
of the IDE.

**Status:** Released **License:** Free (closed source)
**Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.4+

## [Pivotal Tracker](https://code.google.com/p/pivotal-tracker-mylyn-connector/)

The Pivotal Tracker connector allows you to connect to the Pivotal
Tracker project management system (www.pivotaltracker.com). See
<https://www.pivotaltracker.com/projects/201525> for the project
stories.

**Status:** Beta **License:** LGPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.4+

  - Eclipse update site: <http://ptmylyn.teamunify.com>
  - Eclipse Juno update site: <http://ptmylyn.teamunify.com/juno>

## [Polarion Track & Wiki and Polarion ALM (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/integrations/polarion-alm-dev)

The Polarion Mylyn Connector improves project visibility and drives
productivity by providing direct access to Polarion Track & Wiki and
Polarion Application Lifecycle Management (ALM) from within the Eclipse
IDE.

Polarion Track & Wiki provides an all-in-one bug tracking, wiki
collaboration and version control solution. Polarion ALM provides a
full-featured ALM platform with support for requirements, tests, Agile
development andmore. The Polarion Connector provides direct access to
both Polarion Track & Wiki or Polarion ALM from within the Eclipse IDE
or a standalone desktop application. The connector supports advanced
features such as time tracking reports, work records, revision history,
and flexible relationships between tasks.

**Status:** Released **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn
3.4 and later

## [ProjectKoach](http://www.projectkoach.com) (GOOD Software Inc, Canada)

The ProjectKoach Eclipse plug-in (also available as RCP application)
adds a complete agile management solution to Eclipse, including backlog,
iteration plans, and progress charts. It includes a built-in Mylyn
connector that allows developers to use their familiar task management
solution to report progress on their ProjectKoach tasks.

**Status:** mature **License:** Free (closed source) **Compatibility:**
Mylyn 3.4+

## [Rally](http://www.rallydev.com/integrations.jsp)

Rally helps organizations of all sizes shorten their development cycles,
minimize risk, and collaborate across teams with on-demand Agile
lifecycle management products. The Rally Connector for Eclipse/Mylyn
allows the display and editing of Rally artifacts along with the ability
to share Mylyn contexts between developers.

**Status:** mature **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0,
Mylyn 2.0 (for Eclipse 3.2) **Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.4:
    <http://www.rallydev.com/integrations/eclipse/update/v3.4> (Mylyn
    3.0)
  - Eclipse 3.3:
    <http://www.rallydev.com/integrations/eclipse/update/v3.3> (Mylyn
    3.0)
  - Eclipse 3.2:
    <http://www.rallydev.com/integrations/eclipse/update/archive/v3.2>
    (Mylyn 2.0)

## [Redmine](http://www.redmine.org)

[Redmine](http://www.redmine.org) is a flexible project management web
application written using Ruby on Rails framework. The Redmine-Mylyn
Connector is an eclipse Mylyn Repository plug-in for the Redmine bug
tracking / project management application. This connector requires a
server-side ruby plugin installed where you have Redmine running.

[Installation
directions](http://sourceforge.net/apps/wordpress/redmin-mylyncon/) are
available on the [Sourceforge project
site](http://sourceforge.net/projects/redmin-mylyncon/).

**Status:** Released **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0
**Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.5 and 3.6:
    <http://redmin-mylyncon.sourceforge.net/update-site/N/>

## Eclipse 3.7 and later and Redmine 2.x

The original author is no more maintaining the above mylyn connector.
However, a community effort is ongoing on github to maintain and evolve
the plug-in to support more recent Redmine and Eclipse versions.

**Status:** Released **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0
**Home page:**

  - Eclipse 3.7, 3.8, 4.2 and 4.3, available at
    <https://github.com/ljader/redmine-mylyn-plugin>

An updated server-side ruby plugin is requried for Redmine 2 and higher
available at <http://danmunn.github.io/redmine_mylyn_connector/>

Refer to the above sites for installation instructions.

## [Request Tracker (RT)](http://sourceforge.net/projects/mylyn-rt)

N.B.: Works only with Mylyn 2. I stopped working on the connector due to
massive API change from Mylyn 2 to 3.

Quote from <http://bestpractical.com/rt/>: "RT is an enterprise-grade
ticketing system which enables a group of people to intelligently and
efficiently manage tasks, issues, and requests submitted by a community
of users."

The RT Connector supports adding a repository, creating queries, showing
ticket data, editing (a large subset of) ticket data, creating new
tickets, commenting and adding correspondence for tickets, resolving
tickets, taking, stealing, merging tickets and displaying a ticket's
history.

**Status:** alpha (not for use in production environments) **License:**
EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 2.0 **Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.3: <http://mylyn-rt.sourceforge.net/eclipse/update/>

## [Remember The Milk](http://code.google.com/p/mylyn-rtm)

[Remember The Milk (RTM)](http://www.rememberthemilk.com) is the best
way to manage your tasks. Never forget the milk (or anything else)
again. Remember the Milk combined with this connector is the perfect
solution for managing your tasks across multiple Eclipse workspaces or
machines.

The RTM connector (http://mylyn-rtm.googlecode.com) allows for the
adding of a repository, creating queries and creating and editing tasks.

**Status:** alpha (not for use in production environments) **License:**
EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0 **Update site:**

  - Eclipse 3.4: <http://mylyn-rtm.googlecode.com/svn/update-site/>

## [Reviewboard](https://github.com/rombert/ereviewboard)

A Mylyn-based Eclipse integration for Review Board. Supported features
are:

  - query creation
  - display of review details in the rich task editor ( comments,
    patches, screenshots , reviewers )

The connector can be installed from the listed update site or from the
Eclipse Marketplace client.

**Status:** beta **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.4 **Update
site:** <http://rombert.github.com/ereviewboard/update/>

## [ScrumWorks Basic](http://code.google.com/p/scrumworks-basic-mylyn-connector/)

A Mylyn connector for a ScrumWorks Basic repository.

**Status:** Beta **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.2 **Update
site:**

  - Eclipse 3.3, 3.4, and 3.5:
    <http://scrumworks-basic-mylyn-connector.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/update-site/>

## [Serena Business Manager (by Tasktop)](http://www.tasktop.com/integrations/serena-business-manager-dev)

Tasktop Dev for Serena Business Manager integrates Tasktop and Mylyn’s
task-focused interface technology with SBM, resulting in improved
developer productivity. Developers can access SBM from the comfort of
their Eclipse or Visual Studio IDE and quickly view and update their
tasks through the embedded SBM web UI. In addition, Tasktop Dev for SBM
provides the ability to track context such as web pages and documents
associated with each task and share that context with other developers
who are also working on the same task.

**Status:** Stable **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.4+

## [Serena Business Mashups 2009 (by Brutex Networks)](https://www.brutex.net/XServices/websvn/listing.php?repname=XServices)

The Serena Business Mashups connector allows software developers to
access SBM items from Eclipse. It is using the web service interface of
SBM to access the SBM instance. The connector is experimental and not
intended for production use.

The source code is available at
<https://www.brutex.net/XServices/websvn/listing.php?repname=XServices>
The bugtracker is available at <https://www.brutex.net/XBugzilla/>

This version of the SBM connector applies to

  - Serena Business Mashups 2009R1
  - Serena Business Mashups 2009R2
  - Serena Business Mashups 2009R3
  - Serena Business Manager 2009R4 (Serena renamed the product)

<!-- end list -->

  - Eclipse 3.5: <http://brutex.net/updates> (Galileo)
  - Eclipse 3.6: <http://brutex.net/updates> (Helios)

**Status:** alpha **License:** Apache license 2.0 **Compatibility:**
Mylyn 3.3

## [Serena TeamTrack 6](https://code.intuit.com/sf/projects/mylyn_teamtrack_connector/)

The TeamTrack 6 connector allows to connect to legacy (i.e., pre-SBM)
TeamTrack 6 installations. The Mylyn connector for TeamTrack 6 is
currently in alpha state with limited functionality. It is Open Source
licensed under EPL.

**Status:** alpha **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0 **Update
sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.6/3.7:
    <http://forge.code.intuit.com/hudson/job/CI-mylyn.teamtrack.core-trunk/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/trunk/com.intuit.eclipse.mylyn.teamtrack-build/updates/>

## [Sonar (by SonarSource.org)](http://sonar-ide.codehaus.org)

Sonar for Eclipse provides comprehensive integration of
[Sonar](http://www.sonarsource.org/) into Eclipse. Sonar Mylyn connector
allows to track reviews.

**Status:** Released **License:** LGPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.2+

## [TargetProcess](http://targetprocess.com/Product.aspx)

[TargetProcess](http://targetprocess.com/Product.aspx) is Agile Project
Management Software.

Connector:
<http://targetprocess.com/Product/Features/v217_eclipse_prioritize.aspx#eclipse>

Very little other information.

## [TD/OMS by Remain Software](http://www.remainsoftware.com)

[TD/OMS](http://www.remainsoftware.com) is a System i based professional
Application Lifecycle Management system. It manages the complete
software lifecycle from incident to remote implementation. The Mylyn
interface was created with the Database Connector by
[Industrial-TSI](http://www.industrial-tsi.com) and Maarten Meijer more
information on the database connector can be found on the Mylyn
incubator pages.

**Status:** Mature **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.1+

## [ThoughtWorks Studios Mingle (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/integrations/thoughtworks-mingle-dev)

Integrates with the Mingle Agile project management and collaboration
solution from ThoughtWorks Studios, the products division of the global
Agile consultancy, ThoughtWorks. Includes support for Mingle's "Murmurs"
social networking technology. The Mingle connector is bundled as part of
Tasktop Dev Pro and Tasktop Dev Enterprise.

**Status:** Stable **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.3+

## [Trac (by Eclipse Mylyn)](http://trac.edgewall.org/)

The Trac Connector is available as part of Mylyn.

**Status:** mature **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0
**Update sites:**

  - <http://download.eclipse.org/tools/mylyn/update/e3.4>

## [Unfuddle](http://unfuddle.com/plugins/mylyn)

[Unfuddle](http://www.unfuddle.com) is a secure, hosted project
management solution for software development teams. Using the
[connector](http://www.unfuddle.com/plugins/mylyn), developers can
interact directly with all of their Unfuddle tickets right from within
their Eclipse IDE.

**Status:** Released **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.x
**Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.5:
    <http://unfuddle.com/downloads/plugins/mylyn/e3.5/update-site/>

<!-- end list -->

  - Eclipse 3.4:
    <http://unfuddle.com/downloads/plugins/mylyn/e3.4/update-site/>

## [VersionOne (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/integrations/versionone-dev)

The VersionOne Mylyn Connector integrates VersionOne's agile planning
and project management platform with any Tasktop-enabled Eclipse-based
IDE. Through integration with Tasktop Dev Pro, the VersionOne Connector
also provides a standalone rich client application with offline access
to VersionOne stories, defects and tasks.

**Status:** Stable **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.3+

## [Web Templates (by Eclipse Mylyn)](http://wiki.eclipse.org/Mylyn_User_Guide#Generic_Web_Repository_Connector)

The Web Templates Connector is available as one of the Mylyn Incubator
features.

**Status:** incubation **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0
**Update sites:**

  - <http://download.eclipse.org/mylyn/incubator/latest>

## [XPlanner (by Eclipse Mylyn)](http://xplanner.org/)

The XPlanner Connector is available as one of the Mylyn Incubator
features.

**Status:** incubation **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0
**Update sites:**

  - <http://download.eclipse.org/mylyn/incubator/latest>

## [Zendesk (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/integrations/zendesk-dev)

Tasktop Dev offers IDE-based integration for Zendesk. The Zendesk
Connector integrates Zendesk's customer service platform with the
Eclipse and Visual Studio IDEs. Through integration with Tasktop Dev Pro
and Tasktop Dev Enterprise, the Zendesk Connector also provides a
standalone rich client application with offline access to Zendesk
tickets.

**Status:** Stable **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.4+

# Document Bridges

## [Dynamic Languages via DLTK](http://www.eclipse.org/dltk/)

The Eclipse DLTK project provides structure bridges that support Mylyn's
context model for languages such as Tcl, Ruby, Python and JavaScript.
For more information see the [Xored video
documentation](http://us.xored.com/~haiodo/EclipseCon07/dltk-mylar.mov).

**Status:** beta **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 2.0 **Update
site:**

  - <http://download.eclipse.org/technology/dltk/updates>

## [Pydev](http://pydev.sourceforge.net/)

The Pydev project provides a structure bridge that supports the Pydev
Package Explorer and Python elements in the Project Explorer. It
currently works at the resource-level.

**Status:** beta **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 2.0 **Update
site:**

  - <http://pydev.sourceforge.net/updates/>

## [SpringSource ToolSuite, STS (by SpringSource)](http://www.springsource.com/products/sts)

The Spring IDE Mylyn Integration provides:

  - A Structure and UI Bridge for Spring elements that works on
    Spring-element level (<bean />, <property /> or <constructor-arg />
    elements)
  - Automatic code folding in XML editor based on current interest
    context (Code Folding for Structured Text Editors needs to be
    enabled)
  - Content assist proposal resorting based current interest context in
    the XML editor
  - Interest-level filtering in the Spring specific views, like Spring
    Explorer and Beans Cross References View

**Status:** mature **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0
**Update site:**

  - <http://dist.springframework.org/release/IDE>

## [Office Documents and Web Page (by Tasktop)](http://tasktop.com/products/tour)

Tasktop (the task-focused desktop) extends Mylyn's reach beyond source
code to the office documents and web pages interacted with during the
workweek. Similar to how Mylyn reveals the important code artifacts
associated, so does Tasktop reveal the important office documents and
web pages interacted with as part of the active task. On some platforms,
Tasktop also supports management of external application windows so they
are opened and closed just as is expected of code documents.

**Status:** mature **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.1

## [UML Lab (by Yatta Solutions)](http://www.uml-lab.com)

The UML Lab Mylyn Integration leverages UML Lab's next-gen
Round-Trip-Engineering<sup>NG</sup> capabilities to give you an overview
of your important code and model artifacts with task-focussed class
diagrams. Interacting with your code artifacts will increase the
interest of associated model elements and vice versa to keep you focused
on your active task on all levels.

The UML Lab Mylyn Integration provides:

  - A Structure Bridge for UML models
  - Focussing of UML class diagrams and tree views
  - Synchronization of interest between code and model artifacts
  - Incremental Round-Trip-Engineering<sup>NG</sup> based on code
    interest
  - Context Class Diagrams for easy overview of any Mylyn task

**Status:** mature **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.5

# Version Control

## [codeBeamer Eclipse Studio for Mercurial, SVN and CVS (by Intland Software)](http://www.javaforge.com/project/CBES)

codeBeamer Eclipse Studio incorporates support for Mercurial, Subversion
and CVS, with the following features:

  - Associating change sets with issues
  - Navigating from source code to the relevant issues
  - Automatically generating commit messages based on Mylyn tasks
  - Automatically grouping source changes by change requests to easily
    commit or revert only the code for a given request

**Status:** stable **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.3+
**Update site:**

  - <http://cbes.javaforge.com/update>

## [Subclipse SVN (by CollabNet)](http://subclipse.tigris.org)

Subclipse is a Subversion client for Eclipse. Supported features:

  - automatic Change Set management (see [Mylyn FAQ Team
    Support](Mylyn_FAQ#Team_Support "wikilink"))
  - automatic commit messages
  - *Open Corresponding Task* action to open Mylyn's task editor from
    the Change Set in *Synchronize* view and from entries in *History*
    view
  - automatic linking projects with issue trackers using bugraq:url svn
    property

**Status:** mature **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0
**Update site:**

  - <http://subclipse.tigris.org/update_1.4.x>

## [Subversive SVN (by Polarion)](http://www.eclipse.org/subversive/index.php)

Subversive is a Subversion client for Eclipse. See [Polarion's Mylyn
Integration Quick
Start](http://www.polarion.org/index.php?page=mylar&project=subversive)

**Status:** mature **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0
**Subversive update site:**

  - <http://download.eclipse.org/technology/subversive/0.7/update-site/>
  - <http://www.polarion.org/projects/subversive/download/eclipse/2.0/update-site/>
    (Subversive connectors)

# Integrations

## [Maven Integration for Eclipse](http://m2eclipse.codehaus.org/)

Mylyn integration feature in the [Maven Integration for
Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/m2e/) provides automatic linking of
Eclipse projects with task repositories. Maven project metadata is used
as a single place to get information about issue tracking, source
control and continuous integration system used by the project.

**Status:** mature **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 2.x, 3.x
**Update sites:**

  - <http://m2eclipse.sonatype.org/update/>

## [Mozilla Firefox (by Tasktop)](https://www.tasktop.com/integrations/firefox-dev) 

Tasktop (the task-focused desktop) extends Mylyn's reach to capture the
web pages visited to as part of the active task. The Tasktop Firefox
Add-On enables capture of browsing context as it happens in Firefox and
management of Firefox browser tabs on a per-task-basis all from within
Tasktop just as effectively as code pages are managed by Mylyn.

**Status:** mature **License:** Commercial **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.1

# Utilities

## [WikiText (by EclipseMylyn)](http://wiki.eclipse.org/Mylyn/Incubator/WikiText)

[Mylyn WikiText](http://wiki.eclipse.org/Mylyn/Incubator/WikiText) is a
set of plug-ins for Eclipse that provide lightweight markup (wiki)
parsing, editing and display capabilities to the Eclipse platform and
Mylyn. WikiText provides a parser for wiki markup and converts the
markup to HTML, Docbook, DITA, or Eclipse Help format, either via the
API or by using Ant tasks. WikiText also provides UI components (such as
an editor) integrating with Eclipse and the Mylyn task editor.

See [Mylyn/FAQ\#WikiText](Mylyn/FAQ#WikiText "wikilink") for more
details.

**Status:** mature **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0.2

**Update sites:**

  - Eclipse 3.5, 3.6, 3.7:
    <http://download.eclipse.org/mylyn/releases/latest>
  - Eclipse 3.4:
    <http://download.eclipse.org/tools/mylyn/update/weekly/e3.4>
  - Eclipse 3.3:
    <http://download.eclipse.org/tools/mylyn/update/weekly/e3.3>

**Stand-Alone Download:** <http://www.eclipse.org/mylyn/downloads/>

## [Eclipse Timeline](http://www.cpuidle.de/blog/?p=59)

[Eclipse Timeline](http://www.cpuidle.de/blog/?p=59) is a scrolling
timeline view showing events from variant event sources include Mylyn
tasks. The project has originally been developed by Chen on Mylyn 2.0
and hosted on [Google Code](http://code.google.com/p/eclipsetimeline/)
but is no longer maintained.

**Status:** beta **License:** BSD **Compatibility:** Mylyn 3.0 **Update
site:** <http://www.cpuidle.de/eclipse/site.xml/>

## [Fishtail](http://cs.ubc.ca/labs/spl/projects/fishtail/)

Fishtail uses the context of a currently active Mylyn task to formulate
web searches about the code of interest. Searches are performed for a
variety of categories, such as articles, tutorials, and examples of code
use. Fishtail ranks the resultant hits, presenting the most
context-relevant ones in its view.

**Status:** beta **License:** EPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 2.0 **Update
site:** <http://cs.ubc.ca/labs/spl/projects/fishtail/update/>

## [Jaret Calendar](http://xpmp.de/jaretcalendar.html)

[Jaret Calendar](http://xpmp.de/jaretcalendar.html) is a plugin
integrating the google calendar and a local calendar and allows viewing
and manipulating mylyn tasks in a gantt view.

**Status:** alpha **License:** GPL **Compatibility:** Mylyn 2.0 **Update
site:** to come

[Category:Mylyn](Category:Mylyn "wikilink")