## Mylyn WikiText

Mylyn WikiText provides an extensible framework and tools for parsing,
editing and presenting [lightweight
markup](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightweight_markup_language),
including:

  - **Editor for wiki files** using a source editor paradigm with
    preview
  - **Mylyn task editor integration** making the task editor
    markup-aware for displaying and editing markup
  - **Ant Tasks** for converting markup to other formats
  - **API** a framework and API for handling lightweight markup

WikiText has parsers for MediaWiki, Textile, Markdown, CommonMark,
AsciiDoc, Confluence, Creole, TracWiki and TWiki markup, and can be
extended to support other languages. WikiText provides
[Ant](http://ant.apache.org) tasks for converting lightweight markup to
HTML, Eclipse Help, [DocBook](http://www.docbook.org),
[DITA](http://dita.xml.org) and
[XSL-FO](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XSL_Formatting_Objects). WikiText
also provides an editor for editing such markup within Eclipse, and
integrates with the Mylyn task editor causing it to be markup-aware.
WikiText provides API for integrating wiki markup capabilities into
Eclipse, RCP, stand-alone and server-side applications.

### Downloads

Mylyn WikiText can be installed into Eclipse or used stand-alone.
WikiText can be installed in one of the following ways:

  - Maven - see
    [wikitext-examples](https://github.com/greensopinion/wikitext-examples)
    for examples
  - Eclipse p2 site: for using WikiText within Eclipse or an OSGi
    runtime

### Documentation

Mylyn WikiText has a user guide and a developer guide. These documents
are periodically published online, though the most up-to-date versions
are provided when WikiText is installed. Other articles, documents and
guides are available; see the [WikiText
FAQ](Mylyn/FAQ#Where_can_I_find_out_more_about_WikiText.3F "wikilink")
for details.

#### WikiText Links

  - [WikiText User
    Guide](http://help.eclipse.org/mars/topic/org.eclipse.mylyn.wikitext.help.ui/help/Mylyn%20WikiText%20User%20Guide.html)
  - [WikiText Developer
    Guide](http://help.eclipse.org/mars/topic/org.eclipse.mylyn.wikitext.help.ui/help/devguide/WikiText%20Developer%20Guide.html)
  - [WikiText FAQ](Mylyn/FAQ#WikiText "wikilink")
  - [Mylyn Docs Homepage](http://www.eclipse.org/mylyn/docs)

### Feedback

We're interested in any feedback that you might have. For patches,
enhancement requests, bugs: [post an
issue](https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs) under Tools/Mylyn/WikiText.

[Category:Mylyn](Category:Mylyn "wikilink")